thank you thank you for having me here
today uh my name is Sally I'm a software
engineer at protocol labs I work on IFS
and more specifically on dynamic content
so distributed peer-to-peer applications
one of the applications I've been
working on is called Orban appeared to
hear chat application on IP FS which we
just integrate it with you port you
already seen it earlier here today and
the marriage of these two technologies
is beautiful so today I'm going to show
you Orban with you port and talk about
how we build completely distributed
applications today and also what we
should consider when we build our
applications for web 3.0 so if you heard
me talking about orbit before you may
have had some doubts about the
distributed nature of it but today I'm
happy to announce that orbit is finally
completely distributed and peer to peer
there are no servers involved so I'm
gonna jump right into the demo and show
you the cool stuff can you play the
video please so when I open orbit I can
log in with is simply with a nickname or
I can use you for it um when I choose
you for it it will prompt me to
authenticate the application I scan the
QR code with my mobile app and orbit
will pull the profile from the
blockchain now when I log in the first
time you port will ask me to sign my
orbit key which get then gets added to
my Newports profile and will work as the
public signing key for the messages that
I'm sending in in orbit so once I'm
logged in I can join double conte
channel and start chatting um one of the
really cool features of orbit is the
file integration with ipfs so I can drag
and drop file
and folders directly into the chat and
share it with the channel on code
pictures video audio they all kind of
pop right in and you can start directly
streaming the videos from the other
users um now what you four gives us is
the verification that the messages from
HUD are really from me if I click on my
username
once I'm done making bad jokes you can
see the you poured profile data right
there
so my name my location provider is you
board and the public signing key that I
just added to the blockchain and which
is used to sign the messages this is
extremely exciting I know who I'm
talking with and I can verify the source
this you fort is really cool I love it
thank you Christian and consensus so I
wanted to show you another cool demo
which I didn't have time to finish but
this is called planet Express and it's
kind of like Twitter you have a feed
where you can post stuff you can pose
from repost
from other users you can pin them you
can um comment on them and and so on and
it uses the same technology as orbit
does including you port this is really
sweet and what you just saw were
completely distributed real-time
applications with verifiable walk chain
base identities running on desktops and
browsers today this is what serverless
architecture really means and let that
sink in for a while because this is
absolutely huge where you've come
incredibly far in just a few years on
underneath orbit there's a peer to peer
database called orbit DB um it gives you
various types of the databases event log
where you can only add messages but you
can delete them if he is the same as the
event log but you can you
and also delete messages a key-value
store just like any other key value
store you know but peer-to-peer and
counters which are really useful for
stuff like votes and lights and and so
on you can also easily implement other
types of databases like index documents
or kind of like MongoDB or so on Orbitz
DVDs um ipfs lock for database
operations log
it's an append-only partially ordered
eventually consistent Merkle tree of
database operations basically a linked
list of IVA hashes um so having an
operation log allows us to use CR DTS
they basically allow us to merge data in
a way that there are never conflicts I
would highly recommend you to look into
CR DD sir they're extremely cool data
structures so once we have distributed
data structures in place we need to
replicate the data between the peers and
orbit DV uses IVFs pops up on for
propagating the database operations from
the operation log to the network so in
Orbitz case when I send a message the
message gets created and signed with my
public signing key the one that was
added to my on you Ford profile we then
add the operation to the database and
the head hash of the operation log gets
sent to pops a topic which in this case
is the name of the channel and that's
how the data gets eventually consistent
across the peers and everyone sees the
the same data so orbit DV works really
nicely for application databases and is
quite performant but there's no saving
of the database so what would be really
cool is to timestamp the hit hash of the
log or snapshot it periodically into the
blockchain you may think why so
complicated why can't we just replicate
my sequel databases between the peers in
tribute systems time is a very
subjective matter and without a central
authority we don't know what the order
of the messages are and this is what the
CR DT sold and this is why they work so
well in distributed systems so we have
ipfs for storage an append-only lock for
data transport C R DT s to create
databases on top of on the storage and
we have pops up for superfast Messick's
message propagation that enables a
peer-to-peer application and we have a
theorem for authenticating and verifying
data people transactions payments and so
on combining all these we finally have
all the primitives that we need to build
truly powerful distributed peer-to-peer
applications that also work in the
browser on different types of databases
dynamic content even live video
streaming is possible I can't emphasize
enough how profound the sack is so with
these new superpowers we should also
consider what and how we build our
applications we don't want to just
blindly follow the web 2.0 paradigms and
we need to consider what are the
properties of distributed applications
today pretty much nothing works if
you're not connected to the backbone
this is a huge huge problem we need to
make sure that our applications work
offline first and foremost there's a new
trend in web development called
progressive web applications which is a
great direction but with these
technologies offline becomes an inherent
implicit property and we can make it so
much easier and better for all the
developers around the world than it is
today um this should be pretty obvious
to the crowd here but let's make sure
that our applications don't depend on
services that can just disappear can be
shut down or otherwise to cease to exist
we're pretty much locked in with our
data do the services we use today we
can't share data between applications
let it alone and have any control over
our
personal data this is not cool this is
not the internet we wanted we need to
make sure that the applications we build
can share the data between other
programs you know you use um linked data
to create relationships between the
nuggets of data and use standard data
structures as much as possible so you
know like a chat message in one chat
application is probably the same as it
in is in other data application then a
feed is just a feed viewed and packaged
differently as we develop our attack we
also need to make sure to provide a
smooth integration path on otherwise the
revolution will not happen this is
crucial
to gain mass adaptation application
developers don't care about deeper
layers of the stack they just want
something that works that they're
familiar with and something that works
with the technologies that they use
today so as an example or DV provides a
key value store which on the API lever
level is exactly the same as key value
stores we have today except it's fear -
fear so like say we come really far
incredibly far just in a few years and
you should all be very proud of what you
build so far but there's still a lot of
work ahead and I want to leave you with
something to think about how can we
achieve or solve some of the remaining
problems that we still have you can have
this one thank you
so the way you've or does authentication
is fantastic like I said I love it um I
wonder how we could use the same or a
similar mechanism for doing permissions
in a more general way
um the mobile use case is a very
different from desktops and servers so
how can we make all this happen smoothly
on the mobile web and you may think this
is pretty out there but think about the
future of the humankind will soon reach
Mars and maybe beyond
in our lifetime so how do we make truly
interplanetary applications that can
work across vast distances times fans
and disconnected networks um my personal
goal is to put orbit on orbit thank you